APA 文献浏览 2023.12

- newer on top





# 高通量测序：肿瘤特异的APA是怎么在体外塑造肿瘤生长的？ (NC, 2024)
> Multiplexed screening reveals how cancer-specific alternative polyadenylation shapes tumor growth in vivo
> https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38302465/
> Computational Biology Program, Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, WA, USA.

we address this gap by developing a CRISPR-Cas9-based screen to manipulate endogenous polyadenylation and systematically quantify how APA events contribute to tumor growth in vivo.








# 黑素瘤的 免疫反应转录水平 APA(Int J Mol Sci, 2024, IF=5.6)
> The Transcriptional Landscape of Immune-Response 3'-UTR Alternative Polyadenylation in Melanoma
> Xiao Yang  1 , Yingyi Wu  1 , Xingyu Chen  1 , Jiayue Qiu  1 , Chen Huang  1
> 1 Dr. Nesher's Biophysics Laboratory for Innovative Drug Discovery, State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science and Technology, Taipa, Macao SAR 999078, China.
> PMID: 38474285

good-好理由: 复发的多，需要开发新方法提升。
However, a considerable proportion of patients are refractory to treatment, particularly at advanced stages. This underscores the necessity of developing a new strategy to improve it. 

APA作为肿瘤中新的表观遗传学标记，在免疫微环境中还未知。
Alternative polyadenylation (APA), as a marker of crucial posttranscriptional regulation, has emerged as a major new type of epigenetic marker involved in tumorigenesis.
However, the potential roles of APA in shaping the tumor microenvironment (TME) are largely unexplored. 

响应和非响应分组的3UTR改变，涉及：DNA损伤修复、血管生成、PI3K-AKT信号通路等。网络分析发现10个APA因子。
We observed a global change in 3'-UTRs between responders and non-responders, which might involve DNA damage response, angiogenesis, PI3K-AKT signaling pathways, etc. Ten putative master APA regulatory factors for those APA events were detected via a network analysis.

单水平上APA和TME的关系：不同T细胞亚型中3UTR长度的差异，可能对黑色素瘤的免疫调控有作用。
Furthermore, we examined the correlation of APA with TME at the single-cell level using four single-cell immune profiles of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), which revealed an overall discrepancy in 3'-UTR length across diverse T cell populations, probably contributing to immunoregulation in melanoma.






# 亚细胞RNA分布及其随胚胎干细胞分化中的变化 (Stem Cell Reports. 2024)
> Subcellular RNA distribution and its change during human embryonic stem cell differentiation
> https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38134924/
> State Key Laboratory of Common Mechanism Research for Major Diseases, Haihe laboratory of Cell Ecosystem, Key Laboratory of RNA and Hematopoietic Regulation, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medicine Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

The spatial localization of RNA within cells is closely related to its function and also involved in cell fate determination. However, the atlas of RNA distribution within cells and dynamic changes during the developmental process are largely unknown. 

胚胎干细胞发育过程中，五个细胞内的位置的RNA，测序。
In this study, `five subcellular components, including cytoplasmic extract, membrane extract, soluble nuclear extract, chromatin-bound nuclear extract, and cytoskeletal extract`, were isolated and the rules of subcellular RNA distribution in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and its change during hESC differentiation are summarized for the first time.

The overall distribution patterns of coding and non-coding RNAs are revealed. 

Interestingly, some developmental genes are found to be transcribed but confined to the chromatin in undifferentiated hESC. 

选择性剪切和APA赋予同一个基因不同异构体之间的空间异质性。
Unexpectedly, alternative splicing and polyadenylation endow spatial heterogeneity among different isoforms of the same gene. 

Finally, the dynamic pattern of RNA distribution during hESC differentiation is characterized, which provides new clues for a comprehensive understanding hESC pluripotency and differentiation.







# 深度学习 单碱基分辨率 揭示 人pA位点的使用决定性，及疾病相关性(Nat Commun. 2023)
> Deep learning of human polyadenylation sites at nucleotide resolution reveals molecular determinants of site usage and relevance in disease
> https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37968271/
> Department of Pharmacology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA.

To obtain mechanistic insights into polyA site optimization across the human genome, we develop deep/machine learning models to identify genome-wide putative polyA sites at unprecedented nucleotide-level resolution and calculate their strength and usage in the genomic context. 

Our models quantitatively measure position-specific motif importance and their crosstalk in polyA site formation and cleavage heterogeneity. 

- The intronic site expression is governed by the surrounding splicing landscape. 
- The usage of alternative polyA sites in terminal exons is modulated by their relative locations and distance to downstream genes.








# 减数分裂中APA控制 CCNB1的转录本使用 (Nucleic Acids Res. 2023)
> Alternative cleavage and polyadenylation of the Ccnb1 mRNA defines accumulation of cyclin protein during the meiotic cell cycle
> Center for Reproductive Sciences, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
> PMID: 38048302

Here we demonstrate that the synthesis of Cyclin B1 during the oocyte meiotic cell cycle is defined by the selective translation of mRNA variants generated through alternative cleavage and polyadenylation (APA).

Using gene editing in mice, we introduced mutations into the proximal and distal polyadenylation elements of the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of the Ccnb1 mRNA. Through in vivo loss-of-function experiments, we demonstrate that the translation of mRNA with a short 3' UTR specifies Cyclin B1 protein levels that set the timing of meiotic re-entry. In contrast, translation directed by a long 3' UTR is necessary to direct Cyclin B1 protein accumulation during the MI/MII transition. These findings establish that the progression through the cell cycle is dependent on the selective translation of multiple mRNA variants generated by APA.






# 整合分析揭示 APA 可能促进 GCRV 早期感染 (Front Microbiol. 2023)
> Integrative transcriptome analysis reveals alternative polyadenylation potentially contributes to GCRV early infection
> Key Laboratory of Systems Biomedicine (Ministry of Education), Shanghai, Center for Systems Biomedicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
> PMID: 38029205

Methods: In this study we performed transcriptome and DNA methylome analyses with Ctenopharyngodon idellus kidney (CIK) cells infected with GCRV at 0, 4, and 8 h post infection (hpi), respectively.

- 草鱼肾脏细胞系(Ctenopharyngodon idellus Kidney, CIK)

Particularly, we found that biological processes of cytoskeleton organization and regulation of microtubule polymerization are statistically enriched in the genes with altered 3'UTRs.





