- 研究进展: APA 和 T细胞
- year: 2015-2024, n=35

又看到的可能无关的APA重磅研究，


# (无关) 肿瘤特异的APA塑造着肿瘤的生长 (NC, 2024)
> Multiplexed screening reveals how cancer-specific alternative polyadenylation shapes tumor growth in vivo
> Computational Biology Program, Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, WA, USA.
> https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38302465/

功能上没有研究，所以有矛盾描述。
Alternative polyadenylation (APA) is strikingly dysregulated in many cancers. Although global APA dysregulation is frequently associated with poor prognosis, the importance of most individual APA events is controversial simply because few have been functionally studied. 

基于CRISPR-Cas9的筛选基数，操纵内源性APA，系统性定量APA事件怎么促进肿瘤生长。
Here, we address this gap by developing a CRISPR-Cas9-based screen to manipulate endogenous polyadenylation and systematically quantify how APA events contribute to tumor growth in vivo. 

我们的研究揭示了 控制小鼠 黑色素瘤生长的 具体的APA事件，和临床肿瘤相关。
Our screen reveals individual APA events that control mouse melanoma growth in an immunocompetent host, with concordant associations in clinical human cancer. 

For example, forced Atg7 3' UTR lengthening in mouse melanoma suppresses ATG7 protein levels, slows tumor growth, and improves host survival; similarly, in clinical human melanoma, a long ATG7 3' UTR is associated with significantly prolonged patient survival. 

Overall, our study provides an easily adaptable means to functionally dissect APA in physiological systems and directly quantifies the contributions of recurrent APA events to tumorigenic phenotypes.








# (无关) B-ALL中 NUDT21通过APA限制CD19的水平(Nat Immunol. 2022 IF=31.25)
> NUDT21 limits CD19 levels through alternative mRNA polyadenylation in B cell 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
> Witkowski MT(#)(1)(2), Lee S(#)(3)(4), ..., Eyquem J(7)(16)(17)(18), Aifantis I(19).
> (1)Department of Pathology and Laura & Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA. matthew.witkowski@cuanschutz.edu.
> PMID: 36138187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

CAR-T和双特异性抗体，治疗B-ALL。
B cell progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) treatment has been 
revolutionized by T cell-based immunotherapies-including chimeric antigen 
receptor T cell therapy (CAR-T) and the bispecific T cell engager therapeutic, 
blinatumomab-targeting surface glycoprotein CD19. 

很多病人免疫疗法失败，因 抗原逃避 - 失去或不表达CD19。
Unfortunately, many patients with B-ALL will fail immunotherapy due to 'antigen escape'-the loss or absence of leukemic CD19 targeted by anti-leukemic T cells. 

通过 全基因组 CRISPR-Cas9 筛查 识别：B-ALL blasts 中 CD19 缺失的调节器。
In the present study, we utilized a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening approach to identify modulators of CD19 abundance on human B-ALL blasts. 
识别到：在CD19启动子激活中的 转录激活因子 ZNF143 很重要！
These studies identified a critical role for the transcriptional activator ZNF143 in CD19 promoter activation. 

相反，RNA结合蛋白 NUDT21 限制CD19表达，通过调节其mRNA的APA和稳定性。
Conversely, the RNA-binding protein, NUDT21, limited expression of CD19 by regulating CD19 messenger RNA polyadenylation and stability.

在B-ALL细胞中，删除 NUDT21 提高 CD19的表达，提高对CRA-T的敏感性。
NUDT21 deletion in B-ALL cells increased the expression of CD19 and the sensitivity to CD19-specific CAR-T and blinatumomab. 

在接受CAR-T治疗的 B-ALL 病人中，复发时，NUDT21 上调总是伴随着 CD19的缺失。
In human B-ALL patients treated with CAR-T and blinatumomab, upregulation of NUDT21 mRNA coincided with CD19 loss at disease relapse. 

总结：发现B-ALL中CD19的调控新机制。
Together, these studies identify new CD19 modulators in human B-ALL.







2. Blood. 2021 Jul 8;138(1):23-33. doi: 10.1182/blood.2020008966.

Single-cell transcriptomics dissects hematopoietic cell destruction and T-cell 
engagement in aplastic anemia.

Zhu C(1)(2), Lian Y(1)(2)(3), Wang C(1)(2), Wu P(1)(2), Li X(1)(2), Gao Y(4), 
Fan S(1)(2)(3), Ai L(1)(2), Fang L(1)(2)(3), Pan H(1)(2)(3), Cheng T(1)(2), Shi 
J(1)(2)(3), Zhu P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research 
Center for Blood Diseases, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital.
(2)Center for Stem Cell Medicine and Department of Stem Cell & Regenerative 
Medicine, and.
(3)Regenerative Medicine Clinic, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences-Peking Union Medical College, 
Tianjin, China; and.
(4)The Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Ministry of 
Education, Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin Medical 
University Cancer Institute & Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for 
Cancer, Tianjin, China.
PMID: 33763704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Aplastic anemia (AA) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune disorder of the 
hematopoietic system manifested by severe depletion of the hematopoietic stem 
and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Nonetheless, our understanding of the complex 
relationship between HSPCs and T cells is still obscure, mainly limited by 
techniques and the sparsity of HSPCs in the context of bone marrow failure. Here 
we performed single-cell transcriptome analysis of residual HSPCs and T cells to 
identify the molecular players from patients with AA. We observed that residual 
HSPCs in AA exhibited lineage-specific alterations in gene expression and 
transcriptional regulatory networks, indicating a selective disruption of 
distinct lineage-committed progenitor pools. 

APA 歪曲的曲线，与DNA损伤修复相关，表明：可能 贫血 与 脊髓发育不良的综合征 相关。
In particular, HSPCs displayed 
frequently altered alternative splicing events and skewed patterns of 
polyadenylation in transcripts related to DNA damage and repair, suggesting a 
likely role in AA progression to myelodysplastic syndromes. 

We further 
identified cell type-specific ligand-receptor interactions as potential 
mediators for ongoing HSPCs destruction by T cells. By tracking patients after 
immunosuppressive therapy (IST), we showed that hematopoiesis remission was 
incomplete accompanied by IST insensitive interactions between HSPCs and T cells 
as well as sustained abnormal transcription state. 

These data collectively 
constitute the transcriptomic landscape of disrupted hematopoiesis in AA at 
single-cell resolution, providing new insights into the molecular interactions 
of engaged T cells with residual HSPCs and render novel therapeutic 
opportunities for AA.







# 3. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2022 IF=9.26

MCL1 alternative polyadenylation is essential for cell survival and mitochondria 
morphology.

Pereira-Castro I(1)(2), Garcia BC(#)(3)(4), Curinha A(#)(4)(5), Neves-Costa 
A(6), Conde-Sousa E(7)(8), Moita LF(6), Moreira A(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Gene Regulation, i3S, Instituto de Investigação E Inovação Em Saúde, 
Universidade Do Porto, Porto, Portugal. isabel.castro@ibmc.up.pt.
(2)Gene Regulation, IBMC, Instituto de Biologia Molecular E Celular, 
Universidade Do Porto, Porto, Portugal. isabel.castro@ibmc.up.pt.
(3)Gene Regulation, i3S, Instituto de Investigação E Inovação Em Saúde, 
Universidade Do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(4)Gene Regulation, IBMC, Instituto de Biologia Molecular E Celular, 
Universidade Do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, John Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência (IGC), Oeiras, Portugal.
(7)i3S, Instituto de Investigação E Inovação Em Saúde, Universidade Do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(8)INEB, Instituto de Engenharia Biomédica, Universidade Do Porto, Porto, 
Portugal.
(9)Gene Regulation, i3S, Instituto de Investigação E Inovação Em Saúde, 
Universidade Do Porto, Porto, Portugal. alexandra.moreira@i3s.up.pt.
(10)Gene Regulation, IBMC, Instituto de Biologia Molecular E Celular, 
Universidade Do Porto, Porto, Portugal. alexandra.moreira@i3s.up.pt.
(11)ICBAS, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar, Universidade Do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal. alexandra.moreira@i3s.up.pt.
(#)Contributed equally

Alternative polyadenylation in the 3' UTR (3' UTR-APA) is a mode of gene 
expression regulation, fundamental for mRNA stability, translation and 
localization. In the immune system, it was shown that upon T cell activation, 
there is an increase in the relative expression of mRNA isoforms with short 3' 
UTRs resulting from 3' UTR-APA. However, the functional significance of 3' 
UTR-APA remains largely unknown. 

Here, we studied the physiological function of 
3' UTR-APA in the regulation of Myeloid Cell Leukemia 1 (MCL1), an 
anti-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family essential for T cell survival. We 
found that T cells produce two MCL1 mRNA isoforms (pA1 and pA2) by 3' UTR-APA. 

T细胞激活时，pA1短转录本提高，且MCL1蛋白水平提高。
We show that upon T cell activation, there is an increase in both the shorter 
pA1 mRNA isoform and MCL1 protein levels. 

pA2变体被 miR-17下调，T细胞激活后也上调。
Moreover, the less efficiently 
translated pA2 isoform is downregulated by miR-17, which is also more expressed 
upon T cell activation. 

Therefore, by increasing the expression of the more 
efficiently translated pA1 mRNA isoform, which escapes regulation by miR-17, 3' 
UTR-APA fine tunes MCL1 protein levels, critical for activated T cells' 
survival. 

Furthermore, using CRISPR/Cas9-edited cells, we show that depletion of 
either pA1 or pA2 mRNA isoforms causes severe defects in mitochondria 
morphology, increases apoptosis and impacts cell proliferation. Collectively, 
our results show that MCL1 alternative polyadenylation has a key role in the 
regulation of MCL1 protein levels upon T cell activation and reveal an essential 
function for MCL1 3' UTR-APA in cell viability and mitochondria dynamics.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-022-04172-x
PMID: 35229202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]






4. Eur J Immunol. 2016 IF 6.8)

CD5 expression is regulated during human T-cell activation by alternative 
polyadenylation, PTBP1, and miR-204.

Domingues RG(1), Lago-Baldaia I(1), Pereira-Castro I(1)(2), Fachini JM(3), 
Oliveira L(2)(4), Drpic D(1)(2), Lopes N(1), Henriques T(1), Neilson JR(3), 
Carmo AM(2)(4)(5), Moreira A(1)(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Gene Regulation Group, IBMC - Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular, 
Universidade do Porto, Portugal.
(2)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Portugal.
(3)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, Dan L. Duncan Cancer 
Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Cell Activation and Gene Expression Group, IBMC - Instituto de Biologia 
Molecular e Celular, Universidade do Porto, Portugal.
(5)ICBAS - Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar, Universidade do Porto, 
Portugal.

Erratum in:    Eur J Immunol. 2016 Aug;46(8):2054.

T激活后使用短的3UTR。
T lymphocytes stimulated through their antigen receptor (TCR) preferentially 
express mRNA isoforms with shorter 3´ untranslated regions (3´-UTRs) derived 
from alternative pre-mRNA cleavage and polyadenylation (APA). 

However, the 
physiological relevance of APA programs remains poorly understood. 

CD5 is a 
T-cell surface glycoprotein that negatively regulates TCR signaling from the 
onset of T-cell activation. CD5 plays a pivotal role in mediating outcomes of 
cell survival or apoptosis, and may prevent both autoimmunity and cancer. In 
human primary T lymphocytes and Jurkat cells we found three distinct mRNA 
isoforms encoding CD5, each derived from distinct poly(A) signals (PASs). Upon 
T-cell activation, there is an overall increase in CD5 mRNAs with a specific 
increase in the relative expression of the shorter isoforms. 3´-UTRs derived 
from these shorter isoforms confer higher reporter expression in activated T 
cells relative to the longer isoform. We further show that polypyrimidine tract 
binding protein (PTB/PTBP1) directly binds to the proximal PAS and PTB siRNA 
depletion causes a decrease in mRNA derived from this PAS, suggesting an effect 
on stability or poly(A) site selection to circumvent targeting of the longer CD5 
mRNA isoform by miR-204. These mechanisms fine-tune CD5 expression levels and 
thus ultimately T-cell responses.

© 2016 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.201545663
PMCID: PMC5555168
PMID: 27005442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors have no 
conflict of interest to declare.






# (无关 综述)5. Immunol Rev. 2021 IF 8.7

The three as: Alternative splicing, alternative polyadenylation and their impact 
on apoptosis in immune function.

Blake D(1), Lynch KW(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Graduate Group and the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

The latest advances in next-generation sequencing studies and transcriptomic 
profiling over the past decade have highlighted a surprising frequency of genes 
regulated by RNA processing mechanisms in the immune system. 

APA 广泛存在与人的基因中。
In particular, two control steps in mRNA maturation, namely alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylation, are now recognized to occur in the vast majority of human genes. 

Both have the potential to alter the identity of the encoded protein, as 
well as control protein abundance or even protein localization or association 
with other factors. 

APA在免疫系统中：
In this review, we will provide a summary of the general mechanisms by which alternative splicing (AS) and alternative polyadenylation (APA) occur, their regulation within cells of the immune system, and their impact on immunobiology.

In particular, we will focus on how control of apoptosis by AS and APA is used to tune cell fate during an immune response.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.13018
PMCID: PMC8616797
PMID: 34368964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]







6. Nat Commun. 2022 Jun 20;13(1):3540. doi: 10.1038/s41467-022-31228-0.

Optimal CD8(+) T cell effector function requires costimulation-induced 
RNA-binding proteins that reprogram the transcript isoform landscape.

Karginov TA(1), Ménoret A(1), Vella AT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, University of Connecticut, 
UConn Health, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT, 06030, USA.
(2)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, University of Connecticut, 
UConn Health, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT, 06030, USA. vella@uchc.edu.

Boosting T cell activation through costimulation directs defense against cancer 
and viral infections. Despite multiple studies targeting costimulation in 
clinical trials, the increased potency and reprogramming of T cells endowed by 
costimulation is poorly understood. 

传统认为是转录介导的T细胞激活。
Canonical dogma states that transcription mediates T cell activation. 

我们展示了 剪切体 控制转录后APA剪切和APA，是T细胞被 CD134/CD137 共激活后最富集的通路。
Here, we show that the spliceosome, controlling post-transcriptional alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylation, is the most enriched pathway in T cells after CD134/CD137 costimulation. 

CD8+ T细胞提高29种RBP表达，RNA-seq发现超过1000个差异剪切和APA事件。
Costimulation of CD8+ T cells significantly increases expression of 29 RNA-binding proteins while RNA-seq uncovers over 1000 differential alternative splicing and polyadenylation events. 

Using in vivo mouse and in vitro human 
models, we demonstrate that RNA-binding protein Tardbp is required for effector 
cytokine production, CD8+ T cell clonal expansion, and isoform regulation after 
costimulation. The prospect of immune response optimization through 
reprogramming of mRNA isoform production offered herein opens new avenues for 
experimentally and therapeutically tuning the activities of T cells.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-022-31228-0
PMCID: PMC9209503
PMID: 35725727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.





7. Gene. 2017 IF 3.9
Alternative polyadenylation expands the mRNA isoform repertoire of human CD46.

Ly PT(1), Tang SJ(2), Roca X(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 637551, 
Singapore; The Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders Programme, Duke-NUS 
Graduate Medical School, Singapore.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 637551, 
Singapore; Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National University of 
Singapore, Singapore.
(3)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 637551, 
Singapore. Electronic address: xroca@ntu.edu.sg.

Alternative polyadenylation is a prevalent mechanism regulating mammalian gene 
expression. While tandem 3'-Untranslated-Region (3'UTR) polyadenylation changes 
expression levels, Intronic PolyAdenylation generates shorter transcripts 
encoding truncated proteins. 

内含子APA调控 20%的基因，特别在 受体酪氨酸激酶转录本种常见，产生可溶性抑制子。
Intronic PolyAdenylation regulates 20% of genes and is especially common in receptor tyrosine-kinase transcripts, generating soluble repressors. 

我们报告 CD46，编码 补体的跨膜蛋白抑制子，也是T细胞共激活子，通过APA表达多个变体。
Here we report that human CD46, encoding a TransMembrane repressor of complement and T-cell co-stimulator, expresses multiple isoforms by alternative polyadenylation. 

We provide evidence for polyadenylation at several 
introns by RT-PCR of 5' intronic fragments, and by increase in such isoforms via 
functional U1 knockdown. We mapped various Intronic PolyAdenylation Sites by 3' 
Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends (3'RACE), which could generate soluble or 
membrane-bound but tail-less CD46. Intronic PolyAdenylation could add to the 
source of soluble CD46 isoforms in fluids and tissues, which increase in cancers 
and autoimmune syndromes. Furthermore, 3'RACE identified three PolyAdenylation 
Sites within the last intron and exon, whose transcripts with shortened 3'UTRs 
could support higher CD46 expression. Finally, 3'RACE revealed that the CD46 
Pseudogene only expresses short transcripts by early polyadenylation in intron 
2. Overall, we report a wide variety of CD46 mRNA isoforms which could generate 
new protein isoforms, adding to the diverse physiological and pathological roles 
of CD46.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.05.004
PMID: 28476687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]




8. Front Immunol. 2023 Sep 27;14:1240859. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1240859. 
eCollection 2023.

Divergent molecular events underlying initial T-cell commitment in human 
prenatal and postnatal thymus.

He H(1), Yao Y(1)(2), Tang L(1), Li Y(1), Li Z(3), Liu B(1)(3), Lan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Regenerative Medicine of Ministry of Education, Institute 
of Hematology, School of Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Basic Medicine Postdoctoral Research Station, Jinan University, Guangzhou, 
China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Haihe Laboratory of Cell 
Ecosystem, Institute of Hematology, Senior Department of Hematology, Fifth 
Medical Center of Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, China.

INTRODUCTION: Intrathymic T-cell development is a coordinated process 
accompanied by dynamic changes in gene expression. Although the transcriptome 
characteristics of developing T cells in both human fetal and postnatal thymus 
at single-cell resolution have been revealed recently, 
出生前后胸腺中T细胞的发育还是不清晰的。
the differences between human prenatal and postnatal thymocytes regarding the ontogeny and early events of T-cell development still remain obscure. 

不同阶段的APA也是未知的。
Moreover, the transcriptional heterogeneity and posttranscriptional gene expression regulation such as alternative polyadenylation at different stages are also unknown.

整合分析了出生前后的 CD4-CD8- double-negative (DN) cells

T细胞发育中的全基因组APA，发现T发育轨迹中不同群体的pA位点偏好性不同。
Finally, we quantified the transcriptome-wide changes in alternative polyadenylation across T-cell development and found diverse preferences of polyadenylation site usage in divergent populations along the T-cell commitment trajectory.

结论：T细胞发育前后 转录异质性，APA动态图谱，为理解胸腺中T淋巴细胞提供综合资源。
DISCUSSION: In summary, our results revealed transcriptional heterogeneity and a dynamic landscape of alternative polyadenylation during T-cell development in both human prenatal and postnatal thymus, providing a comprehensive resource for understanding T lymphopoiesis in human thymus.

PMID: 37828991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]




# 乳腺癌中 细胞亚群特异的APA 及作为早期marker
9. PLoS One. 2019 IF 3.7

Alternative polyadenylation of single cells delineates cell types and serves as 
a prognostic marker in early stage breast cancer.

Kim N(1)(2), Chung W(1), Eum HH(1)(2), Lee HO(1)(2)(3), Park WY(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Samsung Genome Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Sungkyunkwan University School of 
Medicine, Suwon, South Korea.
(3)Department of Health Sciences and Technology, Samsung Advanced Institute for 
Health Sciences &Technology, Sungkyunkwan University, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)GENINUS Inc., Seoul, South Korea.

Alternative polyadenylation (APA) in 3' untranslated regions (3' UTR) plays an 
important role in regulating transcript abundance, localization, and interaction 
with microRNAs. Length-variation of 3'UTRs by APA contributes to efficient 
proliferation of cancer cells. In this study, we investigated APA in single 
cancer cells and tumor microenvironment cells to understand the physiological 
implication of APA in different cell types. We analyzed APA patterns and the 
expression level of genes from the 515 single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) 
dataset from 11 breast cancer patients. 


尽管单个基因的总体3'UTR长度在肿瘤细胞和非肿瘤细胞中分布均匀，但我们发现肿瘤细胞和非肿瘤细胞之间基因集的聚腺苷酸化模式存在差异。
Although the overall 3'UTR length of individual genes was distributed equally in tumor and non-tumor cells, we found a differential pattern of polyadenylation in gene sets between tumor and non-tumor cells. 

基因3UTR缩短，表达上升，在5类细胞中：B，T，髓系，基质，乳腺癌细胞。
In addition, we found a differential pattern of APA across 
tumor types using scRNA-seq data from 3 glioblastoma patients and 1 renal cell 
carcinoma patients. In detail, 1,176 gene sets and 53 genes showed the distinct 
pattern of 3'UTR shortening and over-expression as signatures for five cell 
types including B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes, myeloid cells, stromal cells, and 
breast cancer cells. 

Functional categories of gene sets for cellular 
proliferation demonstrated concordant regulation of APA and gene expression 
specific to cell types. The expression of APA genes in breast cancer was 
significantly correlated with the clinical outcome of earlier stage breast 
cancer patients. We identified cell type-specific APA in single cells, which 
allows the identification of cell types based on 3'UTR length variation in 
combination with gene expression. Specifically, an immune-specific APA signature 
in breast cancer could be utilized as a prognostic marker of early stage breast 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0217196
PMCID: PMC6524824
PMID: 31100099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: W.P. is employed by a commercial company, 
GENINUS Inc. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials.









# (不太相关) 11. Cell Rep. 2023 Dec 26;42(12):113479. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2023.113479. Epub 
2023 Nov 24.

LINC00921 reduces lung cancer radiosensitivity by destabilizing NUDT21 and 
driving aberrant MED23 alternative polyadenylation.

Zhang N(1), Liu X(2), Huang L(2), Zeng J(2), Ma C(2), Han L(2), Li W(2), Yu 
J(3), Yang M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong First 
Medical University and Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, 
China; Jiangsu Key Lab of Cancer Biomarkers, Prevention, and Treatment, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Personalized Medicine, Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong First 
Medical University and Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, 
China.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong First 
Medical University and Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, 
China; Shandong University Cancer Center, Jinan, Shandong, China. Electronic 
address: sdyujinming@163.com.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong First 
Medical University and Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, Shandong, 
China; Shandong University Cancer Center, Jinan, Shandong, China. Electronic 
address: yangm@sdu.edu.cn.

APA对控制转录组多样性和 肿瘤化疗抗药 有重要作用。
lncRNA对APA的作用还不清楚。
Alternative polyadenylation (APA) plays a major role in controlling transcriptome iversity and therapeutic resistance of cancers. However, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) involved in pathological APA remain poorly defined. 


Here, we functionally characterize LINC00921, a MED13L/P300-induced oncogenic 
lncRNA, and show that it is required for global regulation of APA in non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 

LINC00921 shows significant potential for reducing NSCLC radiosensitivity, and high LINC00921 levels are associated with a poor prognosis for patients with NSCLC treated with radiotherapy. 

LINC00921 controls NUDT21 stability by facilitating binding of NUDT21 with the E3 ligase TRIP12. 

LINC00921诱导 NUDT21的不稳定，通过APA促进 MED23的3’UTR缩短，
LINC00921-induced destabilization of NUDT21 promotes 3' UTR shortening of MED23 
mRNA via APA, which, in turn, 
导致MED23蛋白水平升高，及 B-catenin核转位。
leads to elevated MED23 protein levels in cancer cells and nuclear translocation of β-catenin
所以，激活 B-catenin/TCF/LEF 调控的核心原癌基因(c-Myc, CCND1, and BMP4)
and thereby activates expression of multiple β-catenin/T cell factor (TCF)/lymphoid enhancer-binding factor (LEF)-regulated core oncogenes (c-Myc, CCND1, and BMP4). 


These findings highlight the importance of functionally annotating lncRNAs controlling APA and suggest the clinical potential of therapeutics for advanced NSCLC.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2023.113479
PMID: 37999979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.








# Th1 细胞分化中 SNRPA 介导的 STAT5B APA (12. J Immunol. 2017 IF 4.4)
> Small Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Polypeptide A-Mediated Alternative Polyadenylation of STAT5B during Th1 Cell Differentiation.
> Qiu F(1), Fu Y(1), ..., Chen C(1), Chen S(1), Xu A(2)(3).
> (1)State Key Laboratory for Biocontrol, Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Functional Genes, Department of Biochemistry, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Higher Education Mega Center, Guangzhou 510006, People's Republic of China; and.
> PMID: 28954886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

T cells are activated and differentiated into Th cells depending on the rapid and accurate changes in the cell transcriptome. 

In addition to changes in mRNA expression, the sequences of many transcripts are altered by alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylation (APA). 

相对于 naive T细胞，CD4+ T细胞有更多的短3UTR。
We profiled the APA sites of human CD4+ T cell subsets with high-throughput sequencing and found that Th1 cells harbored more genes with shorter tandem 3' untranslated regions (UTRs) than did naive T cells. 

观察到 STAT5B 有3个pA位点，
We observed that STAT5B, a key regulator of Th1 differentiation, possessed three major APA sites and preferred shorter 3' UTRs in Th1 cells. 

In addition, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide A (SNRPA) 
was found to bind directly to STAT5B 3' UTR and facilitate its APA switching. 

We also found that p65 activation triggered by TCR signaling could promote SNRPA transcription and 3' UTR shortening of STAT5B. Thus we propose that the APA switching of STAT5B induced by TCR activation is mediated by SNRPA.








# T细胞激活中，RBP CELF2 调控 信号诱导的 APA，通过与APA机器的增强子竞争
13. Cell Rep. 2019 Sep 10;28(11):2795-2806.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2019.08.022.

RNA Binding Protein CELF2 Regulates Signal-Induced Alternative Polyadenylation 
by Competing with Enhancers of the Polyadenylation Machinery.

Chatrikhi R(1), Mallory MJ(1), Gazzara MR(2), Agosto LM(3), Zhu WS(4), Litterman 
AJ(4), Ansel KM(4), Lynch KW(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Graduate Group in 
Genomics and Computational Biology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Graduate Group in 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, UC San Francisco, San Francisco, 
CA 94143, USA.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Graduate Group in 
Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address: 
klync@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.

3UTR不是固定的，受到细胞状态的影响，包括T细胞激活。
The 3' UTR (UTR) of human mRNAs plays a critical role in controlling protein 
expression and function. Importantly, 3' UTRs of human messages are not 
invariant for each gene but rather are shaped by alternative polyadenylation 
(APA) in a cell state-dependent manner, including in response to T cell 
activation. 

However, the proteins and mechanisms driving APA regulation remain poorly understood. 

Here we show that the RNA-binding protein CELF2 controls APA 
of its own message in a signal-dependent manner by competing with core enhancers 
of the polyadenylation machinery for binding to RNA. We further show that CELF2 
binding overlaps with APA enhancers transcriptome-wide, and almost half of 3' 
UTRs that undergo T cell signaling-induced APA are regulated in a 
CELF2-dependent manner. 

These studies thus reveal CELF2 to be a critical 
regulator of 3' UTR identity in T cells and demonstrate an additional mechanism 
for CELF2 in regulating polyadenylation site choice.

Copyright © 2019 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2019.08.022
PMCID: PMC6752737
PMID: 31509743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTERESTS The authors declare no 
competing interests.






# SCUREL：肿瘤组织中多数细胞类型3UTR缩短，蛋白代谢中牵涉APA(14. RNA. 2021)

Shortening of 3' UTRs in most cell types composing tumor tissues implicates 
alternative polyadenylation in protein metabolism.

Burri D(1), Zavolan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Computational and Systems Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, Basel, 
CH-4056, Switzerland SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Basel, CH-4056, 
Switzerland.

Erratum in
    RNA. 2023 Jun;29(6):863.

During pre-mRNA maturation 3' end processing can occur at different 
polyadenylation sites in the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) to give rise to 
transcript isoforms that differ in the length of their 3' UTRs. Longer 3' UTRs 
contain additional cis-regulatory elements that impact the fate of the 
transcript and/or of the resulting protein. 

肿瘤中发现APA，机制和作用未知。
Extensive alternative polyadenylation (APA) has been observed in cancers, but the mechanisms and roles remain elusive. 
APA在恶性细胞或肿瘤浸润细胞中是否有有APA还是未知的。
In particular, it is unclear whether the APA occurs in the malignant cells or in other cell types that infiltrate the tumor. 

开发了计算方法 SCUREL，定量组间3UTR长度，包括
To resolve this, we developed a computational method, called SCUREL, that quantifies changes in 3' UTR length between groups of cells, including cells of the same type originating from tumor and control tissue. 

We used this method to study APA 
in human lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). SCUREL relies solely on annotated 3' UTRs 
and on control systems such as T cell activation, and spermatogenesis gives 
qualitatively similar results at much greater sensitivity compared to the 
previously published scAPA method. In the LUAD samples, we find a general trend 
toward 3' UTR shortening not only in cancer cells compared to the cell type of 
origin, but also when comparing other cell types from the tumor vs. the control 
tissue environment. However, we also find high variability in the individual 
targets between patients. The findings help in understanding the extent and 
impact of APA in LUAD, which may support improvements in diagnosis and 
treatment.

© 2021 Burri and Zavolan; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press for 
the RNA Society.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.078886.121
PMCID: PMC8594477
PMID: 34521731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]







# (无关)iPS 体细胞重编程中的动态剪切，揭示了 RNA结合蛋白 CPSF3，hnRNP UL1 和 TIA1 的功能(15. Genome Biol. 2021)
> Dynamics of alternative splicing during somatic cell reprogramming reveals functions for RNA-binding proteins CPSF3, hnRNP UL1, and TIA1.
> Vivori C(1)(2)(3), Papasaikas P(1)(4), ..., Graf T(1)(2), Valcárcel J(8)(9)(10).
> (1)Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Carrer del Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003, Barcelona, Spain.
> (2)Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Carrer del Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003, Barcelona, Spain.
> PMID: 34082786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

小鼠B细胞诱导为 iPS细胞，分析选择性剪切，与小鼠胚胎成纤维细胞的重编程做对比。
Here we study the dynamics of alternative splicing changes occurring during efficient reprogramming of mouse B cells into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells and compare them to those occurring during reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts.

cor(潜在调控子，具体的剪切改变的基因)识别、进一步鉴定出 CPSF3 和 hnRNP UL1 是潜在协助者，TIA1 是小鼠胚胎成纤维细胞重编程的抑制子。
Correlation between gene expression of potential regulators and specific clusters of alternative splicing changes enables the identification and subsequent validation of CPSF3 and hnRNP UL1 as facilitators, and TIA1 as repressor of mouse embryonic fibroblasts reprogramming.






# (无关) 在肺癌免疫治疗中，可溶性 PD-L1 通过APA作为诱饵 (16. JCI Insight. 2022 IF=9.4)
> Soluble PD-L1 works as a decoy in lung cancer immunotherapy via alternative 
polyadenylation.

Sagawa R(1)(2), Sakata S(3), Gong B(1), Seto Y(1), Takemoto A(1), Takagi S(1), 
Ninomiya H(4), Yanagitani N(5), Nakao M(6), Mun M(6), Uchibori K(5), Nishio 
M(5), Miyazaki Y(2), Shiraishi Y(7), Ogawa S(8)(9)(10), Kataoka K(11)(12), 
Fujita N(13), Takeuchi K(3)(4), Katayama R(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Experimental Chemotherapy, Cancer Chemotherapy Center, Japanese 
Foundation for Cancer Research (JFCR), Ariake, Koto-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 
Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Immune checkpoint therapy targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis is a potentially novel 
development in anticancer therapy and has been applied to clinical medicine. 

PD-1/PD-L1疗法的问题：低响应率，抵抗免疫检查点阻断的先天机制，缺少可靠的预测响应的靶点
However, there are still some problems, including a relatively low response 
rate, innate mechanisms of resistance against immune checkpoint blockades, and 
the absence of reliable biomarkers to predict responsiveness. 

In this study of in vitro and in vivo models, we demonstrate that PD-L1-vInt4, a splicing variant of PD-L1, plays a role as a decoy in anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment. 

First, we 
showed that PD-L1-vInt4 was detectable in clinical samples and that it was 
possible to visualize the secreting variants with IHC. 

By overexpressing the 
PD-L1-secreted splicing variant on MC38 cells, we observed that an 
immune-suppressing effect was not induced by their secretion alone. 

We then 
demonstrated that PD-L1-vInt4 secretion resisted anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment, 
compared with WT PD-L1, which was explicable by the PD-L1-vInt4's decoying of 
the anti-PD-L1 antibody. 

The decoying function of PD-L1 splicing variants may be 
one of the reasons for cancers being resistant to anti-PD-L1 therapy. Measuring 
serum PD-L1 levels might be helpful in deciding the therapeutic strategy.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.153323
PMCID: PMC8765052
PMID: 34874919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]





# 细胞压力通过 APA和变体特异的降解 改变3UTR景观(17. Nat Commun. 2018)
> Cellular stress alters 3'UTR landscape through alternative polyadenylation and isoform-specific degradation.
> Zheng D(1)(2), Wang R(1)(2), ..., Zhong Z(3), Tian B(4)(5).
> (1)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ, 07103, USA.
> (5)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, 07103, USA. btian@rutgers.edu.
> PMID: 29891946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

砒霜压力 诱导 全局3UTR缩短，恢复时增强了长3UTR转录本的降解。
Here, we show that arsenic stress elicits global shortening of 
3'UTRs through preferential usage of proximal polyadenylation sites during 
stress and enhanced degradation of long 3'UTR isoforms during recovery. 

我们发现RBP TIA1 倾向于结合 可选3UTR的U-rich motif，与压力程度、长3UTR降解相关。
We demonstrate that RNA-binding protein TIA1 preferentially interacts with 
alternative 3'UTR sequences through U-rich motifs, correlating with stress 
granule association and mRNA decay of long 3'UTR isoforms. 

作为对比，压力诱导产生的短3UTR转录本，可以逃避mRNA清除，保持压力后转录本丰度。
By contrast, genes with shortened 3'UTRs due to stress-induced APA can evade mRNA clearance and maintain transcript abundance post stress. 

我们展示了在分裂和分化后的细胞中，压力导致不同的3UTR尺寸改变，表明对3UTR的影响具有环境特异性。
Furthermore, we show that stress causes distinct 3'UTR size changes in proliferating and differentiated cells, highlighting its context-specific impacts on the 3'UTR landscape. 

总结：我们的数据揭示了 压力细胞中一个全局的、基于3UTR的mRNA稳定性控制，表明APA可以作为对压力的一个适应机制，以保存mRNA量。
Together, our data reveal a global, 3'UTR-based mRNA stability control in stressed cells and indicate that APA can function as an adaptive mechanism to preserve mRNAs in response to stress.






# 黑素瘤 免疫响应的 3UTR APA (18. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 IF=5.6)
> The Transcriptional Landscape of Immune-Response 3'-UTR Alternative Polyadenylation in Melanoma.
> Yang X(1), Wu Y(1), Chen X(1), Qiu J(1), Huang C(1).
> (1)Dr. Nesher's Biophysics Laboratory for Innovative Drug Discovery, State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science and Technology, Taipa, Macao SAR 999078, China.
> PMID: 38474285

免疫疗法显著提升黑素瘤预后，但是很大比例的复发，
The prognosis of patients with malignant melanoma has been improved in recent 
decades due to advancements in immunotherapy. However, a considerable proportion 
of patients are refractory to treatment, particularly at advanced stages. 
说明需要开发新策略去提升它。
This underscores the necessity of developing a new strategy to improve it. 

APA 是新的表观marker。
Alternative polyadenylation (APA), as a marker of crucial posttranscriptional 
regulation, has emerged as a major new type of epigenetic marker involved in 
tumorigenesis. 

它如何塑造肿瘤微环境的还是未知。
However, the potential roles of APA in shaping the tumor microenvironment (TME) are largely unexplored. 

方法：2个接受免疫抑制剂治疗的队列，定量全基因组APA的差异。
Herein, we collected two cohorts comprising melanoma patients who received immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) immunotherapy to quantify transcriptome-wide discrepancies in APA. 

响应和非响应组 APA 的改变，涉及 DNA损伤反应、血管生成、PI3K-AKT信号通路等。
We observed a global change in 3'-UTRs between responders and non-responders, which might 
involve DNA damage response, angiogenesis, PI3K-AKT signaling pathways, etc. 

Ten putative master APA regulatory factors for those APA events were detected via a 
network analysis. Notably, we established an immune response-related APA scoring 
system (IRAPAss), which exhibited a great performance of predicting 
immunotherapy response in multiple cohorts. 

4个单细胞表达谱，肿瘤浸润T细胞，检查，APA和TME相关性，
揭示了不同T细胞亚群中的3UTR长度的不同，可能对黑素瘤的免疫调节有贡献。
Furthermore, we examined the correlation of APA with TME at the single-cell level using four single-cell immune profiles of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), which revealed an overall discrepancy in 3'-UTR length across diverse T cell populations, probably contributing to immunoregulation in melanoma. 

In conclusion, our study provides 
a transcriptional landscape of APA implicated in immunoregulation, which might 
lay the foundation for developing a new strategy for improving immunotherapy 
response for melanoma patients by targeting APA.






# DNA去甲基化试剂增加激活和细胞毒性CD8+ T细胞 (19. Mol Cell. 2021)
> DNA hypomethylating agents increase activation and cytolytic activity of CD8(+) T cells.
> Loo Yau H(1), Bell E(2), ..., Brooks DG(4), De Carvalho DD(12).
> (1)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, ON M5G 2C1, Canada; Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 1L7, Canada.
> PMID: 33609448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

去甲基化试剂 HMA，直接调节抗肿瘤反应和影响CD8+T细胞的效应。
We demonstrate that DNA hypomethylating agent (HMA) treatment can directly 
modulate the anti-tumor response and effector function of CD8+ T cells. 

In vivo HMA treatment promotes CD8+ T cell tumor infiltration and suppresses tumor 
growth via CD8+ T cell-dependent activity. Ex vivo, HMAs enhance primary human 
CD8+ T cell activation markers, effector cytokine production, and anti-tumor 
cytolytic activity. Epigenomic and transcriptomic profiling shows that HMAs 
vastly regulate T cell activation-related transcriptional networks, culminating 
with over-activation of NFATc1 short isoforms. 

机制上，去甲基化 一个基因内的、短3UTR下游的 CpG岛，与反义转录本和NFATc1短转录本相关。
Mechanistically, demethylation of an intragenic CpG island immediately downstream to the 3' UTR of the short isoform was associated with antisense transcription and alternative polyadenylation of NFATc1 short isoforms. 

单细胞流式分析揭示一个CD8+T细胞亚群，HMA后 细胞数和GZMB都提升，
High-dimensional single-cell mass 
cytometry analyses reveal a selective effect of HMAs on a subset of human CD8+ 
T cell subpopulations, increasing both the number and abundance of a granzyme 
B high, perforinhigh effector subpopulation. 

Overall, our findings support the use of HMAs as a therapeutic strategy to boost anti-tumor immune response.









# T helper 展现了动态、可逆的3UTR景观(22. RNA. 2024)
> T helper cells exhibit a dynamic and reversible 3'UTR landscape.
> Seyres D(1), Gorka O(2), Schmidt R(3), Marone R(4), Zavolan M(5), Jeker LT(6).
> (1)UniversitatSpital Basel; denis.seyres@unibas.ch.
> (2)University Medical Center Freiburg.
> (3)Computational and Systems Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel.
> PMID: 38302256

3' untranslated regions (3'UTRs) are critical elements of messenger RNAs, as 
they contain binding sites for RNA-binding proteins (RBP) and microRNAs that 
affect various aspects of the RNA life cycle including transcript stability and 
cellular localisation. 

T细胞激活后，T细胞效应期大量增值，动态改变了它们的3UTR。
In response to T cell receptor activation, T cells undergo massive expansion during the effector phase of the immune response and dynamically modify their 3'UTRs. 

这是否直接调控 具体mRNA的丰度，或者作为分裂的副产物还不清楚。
Whether this serves to directly regulate the abundance of specific mRNAs or is a secondary effect of proliferation remains unclear. 

研究分裂依赖的APA，来研究T helper的3UTR动态。
To study 3'UTR dynamics in T helper cells we investigated division-dependent alternative polyadenylation (APA). 

同时，产生了 naive，激活、记忆和调节T细胞的3UTR测序数据。
In addition, we generated 3' end UTR sequencing data from naïve, activated, memory and regulatory CD4+ T cells. 

非负矩阵分解测量3UTR长度，比较和长度长测序推断的结果。
3'UTR length changes were estimated using a non-negative matrix factorization approach and were compared with those inferred from long-read PacBio sequencing. 

我们发现：APA事件是瞬时的，扩增期后还会恢复。
We found that APA events were transient and reverted after effector phase expansion. 

使用 典型的 多细胞RNAseq数据，没有发现APA和差异表达基因、或转录本使用的相关性，体虱APA只对转录本丰度有微不足道的影响。
Using an orthogonal bulk RNAseq dataset, we did not find evidence of APA association with differential gene expression or transcript usage, indicating that APA has only a marginal effect on transcript abundance. 

3UTR测序分析表明，在可选3UTR区域，有T细胞相关miRNA和RBP的 保守性结合区域
3'UTR sequence analysis revealed conserved binding sites for T cell-relevant 
microRNAs and RBPs in the alternative 3'UTRs. 

These results indicate that polyA 
site usage could play an important role in the control of cell fate decisions 
and homeostasis.










# RAX2: 新统计方法，全基因组加测 条件相关的变异 (24. Nucleic Acids Res. 2015)
> RAX2: a genome-wide detection method of condition-associated transcription variation.
> Tan YD(1), Deng J(1), Neilson JR(2).
> (1)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
> PMID: 25953852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Most mammalian genes have mRNA variants due to alternative promoter usage, 
alternative splicing, and alternative cleavage and polyadenylation. Expression 
of alternative RNA isoforms has been found to be associated with tumorigenesis, 
proliferation and differentiation. Detection of condition-associated 
transcription variation requires association methods. Traditional association 
methods such as Pearson chi-square test and Fisher Exact test are single test 
methods and do not work on count data with replicates. Although the Cochran 
Mantel Haenszel (CMH) approach can handle replicated count data, our simulations 
showed that multiple CMH tests still had very low power. 

卡方的秩检验方法: RAX2
To identify condition-associated variation of transcription, we here proposed a ranking analysis of chi-squares (RAX2) for large-scale association analysis. 
非参数检验，
RAX2 is a nonparametric method and has accurate and conservative estimation of FDR profile. 
模拟数据表明：能找条件相关的变异。
Simulations demonstrated that RAX2 performs well in finding condition-associated transcription variants. 


应用 RAX2到原始T细胞转录组数据，识别1610(16.3%)的转录本与免疫刺激有关（FDR<0.05）
We applied RAX2 to primary T-cell 
transcriptomic data and identified 1610 (16.3%) tags associated in transcription 
with immune stimulation at FDR < 0.05. 

Most of these tags also had differential expression.

免疫刺激后，短RNA变体优先使用。
Analysis of two and three tags within genes revealed that under immune stimulation short RNA isoforms were preferably used.







# (无关)选择性多聚腺苷化调节α1-抗胰蛋白酶在慢性阻塞性肺疾病中的表达(25. PLoS Genet. 2021 IF 6.2)
> Alternative poly-adenylation modulates α1-antitrypsin expression in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
> Lackey L(1), Coria A(2)(3), ..., Castaldi P(4)(8), Laederach A(2).
> (1)Department of Genetics and Biochemistry, Center for Human Genetics, Clemson University, Greenwood, South Carolina, United States of America.
> PMID: 34784346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

α1-anti-trypsin (A1AT), encoded by SERPINA1, is a neutrophil elastase inhibitor 
that controls the inflammatory response in the lung. 

Severe A1AT deficiency 
increases risk for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), however, the 
role of A1AT in COPD in non-deficient individuals is not well known. We identify 
a 2.1-fold increase (p = 2.5x10-6) in the use of a distal poly-adenylation site 
in primary lung tissue RNA-seq in 82 COPD cases when compared to 64 controls and 
replicate this in an independent study of 376 COPD and 267 controls. 

该APA事件包含远近2个位点，终止密码子下游61和1683 nt位置。
This alternative polyadenylation event involves two sites, a proximal and distal site, 61 and 1683 nucleotides downstream of the A1AT stop codon. 

To characterize this event, we measured the distal ratio in human primary tissue short read RNA-seq data and corroborated our results with long read RNA-seq data.

Integrating these results with 3' end RNA-seq and nanoluciferase reporter assay 
experiments we show that use of the distal site yields mRNA transcripts with 
over 50-fold decreased translation efficiency and A1AT expression. We identified 
seven RNA binding proteins using enhanced CrossLinking and ImmunoPrecipitation 
precipitation (eCLIP) with one or more binding sites in the SERPINA1 3' UTR. We 
combined these data with measurements of the distal ratio in shRNA knockdown 
experiments, nuclear and cytoplasmic fractionation, and chemical RNA structure 
probing. We identify Quaking Homolog (QKI) as a modulator of SERPINA1 mRNA 
translation and confirm the role of QKI in SERPINA1 translation with luciferase 
reporter assays. 

分析单细胞数据，发现肝脏中 SERPINA1 的远端使用率差异分布：造血、巨噬细胞、T细胞、浆细胞。
Analysis of single-cell RNA-seq showed differences in the distribution of the SERPINA1 distal ratio among hepatocytes, macrophages, αβ-Tcells and plasma cells in the liver. 

在肺部，肺泡细胞，DC和巨噬细胞的远端比例则不同。
Alveolar Type 1,2, dendritic cells and macrophages also vary in their distal ratio in the lung. 

Our work reveals a complex post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates alternative polyadenylation and A1AT expression in COPD.







# (无关) PABPC1与RBP hnRNPLL 互作，调控 浆细胞中 免疫球蛋白的分泌 (26. J Biol Chem. 2017 IF 5.4)
> Cytoplasmic poly(A)-binding protein 1 (PABPC1) interacts with the RNA-binding protein hnRNPLL and thereby regulates immunoglobulin secretion in plasma cells.
> Peng Y(1), Yuan J(1), Zhang Z(2), Chang X(3).
> (1)Key Laboratory of Stem Cell Biology, Institute of Health Sciences, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences and Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; Collaborative Innovation Center of Systems Biomedicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200031, China.
> PMID: 28611064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Increasing evidence indicates that alternative processing of mRNA, including 
alternative splicing, 3' alternative polyadenylation, and regulation of mRNA 
stability/translation, represents a major mechanism contributing to protein 
diversification. For example, in alternative polyadenylation, the 3' end of the 
immunoglobulin heavy chain mRNA is processed during B cell differentiation, and 
this processing involves RNA-binding proteins. 

hnRNPLL (heterogeneous nuclear 
ribonucleoprotein L-like protein) is an RNA-binding protein expressed in 
terminally differentiated lymphocytes, such as memory T cells and plasma cells. 
hnRNPLL regulates various processes of RNA metabolism, including alternative 
pre-mRNA splicing and RNA stability. 


In plasma cells, hnRNPLL also regulates the 
transition from the membrane isoform of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain (mIgH) to 
the secreted isoform (sIgH), but the precise mechanism remains to be identified. 

本研究，报道 hnRNPLL 在T细胞和浆细胞中，特异性关联 PABPC1。
In this study, we report that hnRNPLL specifically associates with cytoplasmic 
PABPC1 (poly(A)-binding protein 1) in both T cells and plasma cells. 

我们发现，虽然 PABPC1 对CD45剪切不是必须的，CD45是淋巴细胞中hnRNPLL的主要靶标。PABPC1确实促进 hnRNPLL 结合免疫球蛋白 mRNA，调控 浆细胞中 膜型 mIgH到分泌型 sIgH。
We found that although PABPC1 is not required for the alternative splicing of CD45, a primary target of hnRNPLL in lymphocytes, PABPC1 does promote the binding of hnRNPLL to the immunoglobulin mRNA and regulates switching from mIgH to sIgH in plasma cells. 

发现 PABPC1 在APA中的作用，我们的发现表明： PABPC1 招募 hnRNPLL 到 RNA的3’末端，调控Ig的膜型到分泌型转换。
Given the recently identified role of PABPC1 in mRNA alternative polyadenylation, our findings suggest that PABPC1 recruits hnRNPLL to the 3'-end of RNA and regulates the transition from membrane Ig to secreted Ig through mRNA alternative polyadenylation. 

In conclusion, our study has revealed a mechanism that regulates immunoglobulin secretion in B cells via cooperation between a plasma cell-specific RBP (hnRNPLL) and a universally expressed RBP (PABPC1).








# APA 和 RBP Syncrip 通过转录后修饰 调控 HLA-A 蛋白的表达(27. J Immunol. 2017 IF 4.4)
> Posttranscriptional Regulation of HLA-A Protein Expression by Alternative Polyadenylation Signals Involving the RNA-Binding Protein Syncrip.
> Kulkarni S(1)(2), Ramsuran V(3)(4)(5)(6), Rucevic M(3), Singh S(2), Lied A(3), Kulkarni V(3)(7), O'hUigin C(4), Le Gall S(3), Carrington M(3)(4).
> (1)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02139; skulkarni@txbiomed.org.
> PMID: 29055006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Genomic variation in the untranslated region (UTR) has been shown to influence HLA class I expression level and associate with disease outcomes. 

HLA-A的3UTR有2个pA信号。
Sequencing of the 3'UTR of common HLA-A alleles indicated the presence of two polyadenylation signals (PAS). 

The proximal PAS is conserved, whereas the distal PAS is 
disrupted within certain alleles by sequence variants. Using 3'RACE, we 
confirmed expression of two distinct forms of the HLA-A 3'UTR based on use of 
either the proximal or the distal PAS, which differ in length by 100 bp. 
Specific HLA-A alleles varied in the usage of the proximal versus distal PAS, 
with some alleles using only the proximal PAS, and others using both the 
proximal and distal PAS to differing degrees. We show that the short and the 
long 3'UTR produced similar mRNA expression levels. However, the long 3'UTR 
conferred lower luciferase activity as compared with the short form, indicating 
translation inhibition of the long 3'UTR. 

RNA 亲和 pull-down实验，接着MS质普分析，及 co-IP 表明：Syncrip 结合长转录本而不是短转录本。
RNA affinity pull-down followed by mass spectrometry analysis as well as RNA coimmunoprecipitation indicated differential binding of Syncrip to the long versus short 3'UTR. 

miRNA删除Syncrip，能增加 HLA-A表面表达，主要是长UTR转录本。使用短转录本的不受影响。
Depletion of Syncrip by small interfering RNA increased surface expression of an HLA-A allotype that uses primarily the long 3'UTR, whereas an allotype expressing only the short form was unaffected. 

进一步的，特异性的阻断近端3UTR诱导表面表达，而不降低mRNA表达量。
Furthermore, specific blocking of the proximal 3'UTR reduced surface expression without decreasing mRNA expression. 

These data demonstrate HLA-A allele-specific variation in PAS usage, which modulates their cell surface expression posttranscriptionally.








# 在4种主要免疫细胞类型中，miR-155介导的基因调控中细胞环境的效应 (28. Nat Immunol. 2018 IF=31)
> The effect of cellular context on miR-155-mediated gene regulation in four major immune cell types.
> Hsin JP(1)(2)(3), Lu Y(4)(5), Loeb GB(1)(2)(3)(6), Leslie CS(7), Rudensky AY(8)(9)(10).
> (1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
> Comment in: Nat Immunol. 2018 Oct;19(10):1040-1042.
> PMID: 30224821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Numerous microRNAs and their target mRNAs are coexpressed across diverse cell 
types. However, it is unknown whether they are regulated in a manner independent 
of or dependent on cellular context. 

探索全基因组范围的 miR-155 的靶点，
Here, we explored transcriptome-wide targeting and gene regulation by miR-155, whose activation-induced expression plays important roles in innate and adaptive immunity. 

通过iCLIP把 miR-155 比对到靶标，RNA-seq定量，3UTR分析polyA： 巨噬细胞，DC，T和B细胞，或足够或缺乏激活的miR-155，识别了miR-155的很多不同的靶标。
Through mapping of miR-155 targets through differential iCLIP, mRNA quantification with RNA-seq, and 3' untranslated region (UTR)-usage analysis with poly(A)-seq in macrophages, dendritic cells, and T and B lymphocytes either sufficient or deficient in activated miR-155, we identified numerous targets differentially bound by miR-155. 

Whereas alternative cleavage and polyadenylation (ApA) contributed to 
differential miR-155 binding to some transcripts, in most cases, identical 
3'-UTR isoforms were differentially regulated across cell types, thus suggesting 
ApA-independent and cellular-context-dependent miR-155-mediated gene regulation. 

Our study provides comprehensive maps of miR-155 regulatory networks and offers 
a valuable resource for dissecting context-dependent and context-independent 
miRNA-mediated gene regulation in key immune cell types.

> Fig.5A CD4+ T cell, 0 h, 24 h and 48 h after activation.










# (无关) 40个志愿者的CD4+ T细胞RNA-seq：rRNA去除和polyA选择 建库方法的比较(32. Sci Data. 2020)
> Paired rRNA-depleted and polyA-selected RNA sequencing data and supporting multi-omics data from human T cells.
> Chen L(1), Yang R(1), ... Pastinen T(13), Chen L(14).
> (1)Key Laboratory of Birth Defects and Related Diseases of Women and Children of MOE, Department of Laboratory Medicine, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Second Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, 610041, China.
> (2)Human Genetics, McGill University, 740 Dr. Penfield, Montreal, QC, H3A 0G1, Canada.
> PMID: 33168820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Both poly(A) enrichment and ribosomal RNA depletion are commonly used for RNA 
sequencing. Either has its advantages and disadvantages that may lead to biases 
in the downstream analyses. 

对40个志愿者的CD4+ T细胞进行RNA-seq测序：去rRNA 或 polyA 选择。
To better access these effects, we carried out both ribosomal RNA-depleted and poly(A)-selected RNA-seq for CD4+ T naive cells isolated from 40 healthy individuals from the Blueprint Project. 

For these 40 individuals, the genomic and epigenetic data were also available. 

This dataset offers a unique opportunity to understand how library construction influences differential gene expression, alternative splicing and molecular QTL (quantitative loci) analyses for human primary cells.

