APA facter functions

> APA 因子的作用？



# APA因子WDR33 (的非经典变体) 调控 STING 介导的免疫反应 (Cell Rep. 2024)
> Non-canonical isoforms of the mRNA polyadenylation factor WDR33 regulate STING-mediated immune responses
> Lizhi Liu 1, James L Manley 2
> Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027, USA.

The human WDR33 gene encodes three major isoforms. 
The canonical isoform WDR33v1 (V1) is a well-characterized nuclear mRNA polyadenylation factor, while the other two, WDR33v2 (V2) and WDR33v3 (V3), have not been studied. 

Here, we report that V2 and V3 are generated by alternative polyadenylation, and neither protein contains all seven WD (tryptophan-aspartic acid) repeats that characterize V1. 

Surprisingly, V2 and V3 are not polyadenylation factors but localize to the endoplasmic reticulum and interact with stimulator of interferon genes (STING), the immune factor that induces the cellular response to cytosolic double-stranded DNA. 

V2 suppresses interferon-β induction by preventing STING disulfide oligomerization but promotes autophagy, likely by recruiting WIPI2 isoforms. 

V3, on the other hand, functions to increase STING protein levels. 

Our study has not only provided mechanistic insights into STING regulation but also revealed that protein isoforms can be functionally completely unrelated, indicating that alternative mRNA processing is a more powerful mechanism than previously appreciated.

> STING1 Gene - Stimulator Of Interferon Response CGAMP Interactor 1, aliases: STING




