

# worm 衰老图谱：提到组织特异性APA (Nat Aging, IF=16.6)
> Aging atlas reveals cell-type-specific effects of pro-longevity strategies
> Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, VA, USA.

研究的worm衰老图谱:
Here we generated the transcriptomic Cell Atlas of Worm Aging (CAWA, http://mengwanglab.org/atlas ) of wild-type and long-lived strains.

细胞类型特异的APA改变：衰老过程中，不同抗衰老策略中
Furthermore, through genome-wide profiling of alternative polyadenylation (APA) events in different tissues, we discovered cell-type-specific APA changes during aging and revealed how these changes are differentially affected by the pro-longevity strategies.





# DIPAN：从RNA-seq中检测内含子APA来源的新抗原 (Comput Struct Biotechnol J, IF 6)
> DIPAN: Detecting personalized intronic polyadenylation derived neoantigens from RNA sequencing data
> School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.

Intronic polyadenylation (IPA) refers to a particular type of alternative polyadenylation where a gene makes use of a polyadenylation site located within its introns. 

Aberrant IPA events have been observed in various types of cancer.






# 全基因组APA筛选肿瘤易感基因 (Cancer Res. 2024, IF=12.7)
> Large-scale alternative polyadenylation-wide association studies to identify putative cancer susceptibility genes
> Vanderbilt University Medical Center, NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE, United States.

Genetic models were built to predict APA levels in multiple tissues using genotype and RNA-sequencing data from 1,337 samples from the Genotype-Tissue Expression Project.

Of the identified risk APAs, 97.4% and 26.3% were supported by 3' UTR APA quantitative trait loci and co-localization analyses, respectively.






# CD4+T细胞激活中3UTR APA 是瞬时的、信号依赖的 (Sci Rep. 2024, IF 4.6)
> Alternative 3'UTR expression induced by T cell activation is regulated in a temporal and signal dependent manner
> Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

Most APA changes upon T cell activation involve 3'UTR shortening, although a set of genes enriched for function in the mTOR pathway exhibit 3'UTR lengthening. 

上调APA核心蛋白能延长3UTR缩短，通过延长T细胞激活；
While upregulation of the core polyadenylation machinery likely induces 3'UTR shortening following prolonged T cell stimulation; 
APA事件发生在细胞增殖之前，或上调APA机器之前。
a significant program of APA changes occur prior to cellular proliferation or upregulation of the APA machinery. 

motif分析表明：至少一部分早期APA是RBM3上调驱动的。
Motif analysis suggests that at least a subset of these early changes in APA are driven by upregulation of RBM3, an RNA-binding protein which competes with the APA machinery for binding.




